README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://i.imgur.com/75FqnJs.png" width="180" alt="Plant Assistant"/>
</p>

<h1 align="center">🌱 Plant Assistant 🌱</h1>

<p align="center">
  A local Plant Assistant that runs on your Mac, using LangChain and the <a href="https://ollama.ai/library/mistral">Mistral</a> Large Language Model (LLM) via <a href="https://ollama.ai/">Ollama</a> to provide plant care recommendations based on various parameters.
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/lafllamme/Plant.me/commits/main"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/lafllamme/Plant.me" alt="Last Commit"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/lafllamme/Plant.me/issues"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/lafllamme/Plant.me" alt="Open Issues"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/lafllamme/Plant.me/pulls"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/lafllamme/Plant.me" alt="Open Pull Requests"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/lafllamme/Plant.me"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/lafllamme/Plant.me" alt="License"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/ollama/ollama"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Ollama-GitHub-blue" alt="Ollama GitHub"></a>
</p>

## 🛠 Prerequisites

Make sure you have the following installed:

- **Docker**
- **Docker Compose**
- **Make**

## 🚀 Setup

1. **Clone the Repository:**

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/lafllamme/Plant.me.git
    cd Plant.me
    ```

2. **Create a `.env` File for Environment Variables:**

    In the root directory, create a `.env` file and add the following:

    ```plaintext
    OLLAMA_MODEL=mistral
    ```

    > **Note:** The `OLLAMA_MODEL` variable specifies which model to use. In this case, we're using the [Mistral](https://ollama.ai/library/mistral) model.

3. **Build and Start the Application with Make:**

    ```bash
    make build
    make start
    ```

    > **Note:** The `make start` command brings up the services and waits for the Ollama server to become healthy.

4. **Check if the Container is Running:**

    ```bash
    docker-compose ps
    ```

## 🌐 Usage

Once the setup is complete, the API will be available at `http://localhost:8000/plant-assistant`.

### Example API Request using Ollama and Mistral

You can interact with the Ollama API directly using the Mistral model. Here's an example of how to generate a response using a `POST` request:

```bash
curl http://localhost:11434/api/generate -d '{
  "model": "mistral",
  "prompt": "Why is the sky blue?",
  "stream": false
}' -H "Content-Type: application/json"
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "model": "mistral",
  "created_at": "2024-11-22T15:36:02.583064Z",
  "response": " The sky appears blue because molecules in the Earth's atmosphere scatter sunlight in all directions, and blue light is scattered more than other colors due to its shorter wavelength.",
  "done": true,
  "total_duration": 8493852375,
  "load_duration": 6589624375,
  "prompt_eval_count": 14,
  "prompt_eval_duration": 119039000,
  "eval_count": 110,
  "eval_duration": 1779061000
}
```

### Using the Plant Assistant API

To get plant care recommendations, use the following sample request:

```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8000/plant-assistant" \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{
           "plant_name": "Ficus lyrata",
           "plant_type": "Indoor plant",
           "season": "Summer",
           "temperature": 22.5,
           "humidity": 60,
           "location": "Living room",
           "light_conditions": "Bright indirect light"
         }'
```

## 🧠 Supported Models and Hardware Requirements

Our application supports different models depending on your hardware capabilities. Here's a table of available models sorted by parameters in ascending order:

| Model                    | Parameters | Size    | Command                            |
|--------------------------|------------|---------|------------------------------------|
| **Llama 3.2 (1B)**       | 1B         | 1.3GB   | `ollama run llama3.2:1b`           |
| **Moondream 2**          | 1.4B       | 829MB   | `ollama run moondream`             |
| **Gemma 2 (2B)**         | 2B         | 1.6GB   | `ollama run gemma2:2b`             |
| **Llama 3.2**            | 3B         | 2.0GB   | `ollama run llama3.2`              |
| **Phi 3 Mini**           | 3.8B       | 2.3GB   | `ollama run phi3`                  |
| **Code Llama**           | 7B         | 3.8GB   | `ollama run codellama`             |
| **Llama 2 Uncensored**   | 7B         | 3.8GB   | `ollama run llama2-uncensored`     |
| **Mistral**              | 7B         | 4.1GB   | `ollama run mistral`               |
| **Neural Chat**          | 7B         | 4.1GB   | `ollama run neural-chat`           |
| **Starling**             | 7B         | 4.1GB   | `ollama run starling-lm`           |
| **LLaVA**                | 7B         | 4.5GB   | `ollama run llava`                 |
| **Llama 3.1**            | 8B         | 4.7GB   | `ollama run llama3.1`              |
| **Gemma 2**              | 9B         | 5.5GB   | `ollama run gemma2`                |
| **Solar**                | 10.7B      | 6.1GB   | `ollama run solar`                 |
| **Llama 3.2 Vision**     | 11B        | 7.9GB   | `ollama run llama3.2-vision`       |
| **Phi 3 Medium**         | 14B        | 7.9GB   | `ollama run phi3:medium`           |
| **Gemma 2 (27B)**        | 27B        | 16GB    | `ollama run gemma2:27b`            |
| **Llama 3.1 (70B)**      | 70B        | 40GB    | `ollama run llama3.1:70b`          |
| **Llama 3.2 Vision**     | 90B        | 55GB    | `ollama run llama3.2-vision:90b`   |
| **Llama 3.1 (405B)**     | 405B       | 231GB   | `ollama run llama3.1:405b`         |

> **⚠️ Note:** Larger models require more RAM. Approximate hardware requirements:
>
> - **1B - 3B parameters**: at least **4 GB RAM**
> - **7B parameters**: at least **8 GB RAM**
> - **14B parameters**: at least **16 GB RAM**
> - **27B parameters**: at least **32 GB RAM**
> - **70B parameters**: at least **64 GB RAM**
> - **90B parameters**: at least **128 GB RAM**
> - **405B parameters**: at least **256 GB RAM**

## 📚 Learn More

- **[LangChain Documentation](https://langchain.com/docs/)** - Learn more about LangChain’s capabilities for language model applications.
- **[Ollama Documentation](https://ollama.ai/docs/)** - Explore how Ollama simplifies running LLMs locally.
- **[Mistral Model](https://ollama.ai/library/mistral)** - Discover more about the Mistral model used in this project.
- **[Docker Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/)** - Dive into Docker’s powerful containerization.
- **[Ollama GitHub Repository](https://github.com/ollama/ollama)** - Check out Ollama on GitHub.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request. Please follow the [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/lafllamme/Plant.me/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) when contributing.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

---

<p align="center">Made with ❤️ by <a href="https://github.com/lafllamme">lafllamme</a></p>

---

Commit message:

feat: Update README with instructions to run create.sh script
Added steps to execute the create.sh script for generating environment files. This ensures better clarity for setting up the project correctly.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://i.imgur.com/75FqnJs.png" width="180" alt="Plant Assistant"/>
</p>

<h1 align="center">🌱 Plant Assistant 🌱</h1>

<p align="center">
  A local Plant Assistant that runs on your Mac, using LangChain and the <a href="https://ollama.ai/library/mistral">Mistral</a> Large Language Model (LLM) via <a href="https://ollama.ai/">Ollama</a> to provide plant care recommendations based on various parameters.
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/lafllamme/Plant.me/commits/main"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/lafllamme/Plant.me" alt="Last Commit"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/lafllamme/Plant.me/issues"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/lafllamme/Plant.me" alt="Open Issues"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/lafllamme/Plant.me/pulls"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/lafllamme/Plant.me" alt="Open Pull Requests"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/lafllamme/Plant.me"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/lafllamme/Plant.me" alt="License"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/ollama/ollama"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Ollama-GitHub-blue" alt="Ollama GitHub"></a>
</p>

## 🛠 Prerequisites

Make sure you have the following installed:

- **Docker**
- **Docker Compose**
- **Make**

## 🚀 Setup

1. **Clone the Repository:**

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/lafllamme/Plant.me.git
    cd Plant.me1. 
2. **Run the create.sh for the environment files:**

    ```bash
    chmod +x scripts/create.sh
    scripts/create.sh
    ```

2. **Create a `.env` File for Environment Variables:**

    In the root directory, create a `.env` file and add the following:

    ```plaintext
    OLLAMA_MODEL=mistral
    ```

    > **Note:** The `OLLAMA_MODEL` variable specifies which model to use. In this case, we're using the [Mistral](https://ollama.ai/library/mistral) model.

3. **Build and Start the Application with Make:**

    ```bash
    make build
    make start
    ```

    > **Note:** The `make start` command brings up the services and waits for the Ollama server to become healthy.

4. **Check if the Container is Running:**

    ```bash
    docker-compose ps
    ```

## 🌐 Usage

Once the setup is complete, the API will be available at `http://localhost:8000/plant-assistant`.

### Example API Request using Ollama and Mistral

You can interact with the Ollama API directly using the Mistral model. Here's an example of how to generate a response using a `POST` request:

```bash
curl http://localhost:11434/api/generate -d '{
  "model": "mistral",
  "prompt": "Why is the sky blue?",
  "stream": false
}' -H "Content-Type: application/json"
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "model": "mistral",
  "created_at": "2024-11-22T15:36:02.583064Z",
  "response": " The sky appears blue because molecules in the Earth's atmosphere scatter sunlight in all directions, and blue light is scattered more than other colors due to its shorter wavelength.",
  "done": true,
  "total_duration": 8493852375,
  "load_duration": 6589624375,
  "prompt_eval_count": 14,
  "prompt_eval_duration": 119039000,
  "eval_count": 110,
  "eval_duration": 1779061000
}
```

### Using the Plant Assistant API

To get plant care recommendations, use the following sample request:

```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8000/plant-assistant" \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{
           "plant_name": "Ficus lyrata",
           "plant_type": "Indoor plant",
           "season": "Summer",
           "temperature": 22.5,
           "humidity": 60,
           "location": "Living room",
           "light_conditions": "Bright indirect light"
         }'
```

## 🧠 Supported Models and Hardware Requirements

Our application supports different models depending on your hardware capabilities. Here's a table of available models sorted by parameters in ascending order:

| Model                    | Parameters | Size    | Command                            |
|--------------------------|------------|---------|------------------------------------|
| **Llama 3.2 (1B)**       | 1B         | 1.3GB   | `ollama run llama3.2:1b`           |
| **Moondream 2**          | 1.4B       | 829MB   | `ollama run moondream`             |
| **Gemma 2 (2B)**         | 2B         | 1.6GB   | `ollama run gemma2:2b`             |
| **Llama 3.2**            | 3B         | 2.0GB   | `ollama run llama3.2`              |
| **Phi 3 Mini**           | 3.8B       | 2.3GB   | `ollama run phi3`                  |
| **Code Llama**           | 7B         | 3.8GB   | `ollama run codellama`             |
| **Llama 2 Uncensored**   | 7B         | 3.8GB   | `ollama run llama2-uncensored`     |
| **Mistral**              | 7B         | 4.1GB   | `ollama run mistral`               |
| **Neural Chat**          | 7B         | 4.1GB   | `ollama run neural-chat`           |
| **Starling**             | 7B         | 4.1GB   | `ollama run starling-lm`           |
| **LLaVA**                | 7B         | 4.5GB   | `ollama run llava`                 |
| **Llama 3.1**            | 8B         | 4.7GB   | `ollama run llama3.1`              |
| **Gemma 2**              | 9B         | 5.5GB   | `ollama run gemma2`                |
| **Solar**                | 10.7B      | 6.1GB   | `ollama run solar`                 |
| **Llama 3.2 Vision**     | 11B        | 7.9GB   | `ollama run llama3.2-vision`       |
| **Phi 3 Medium**         | 14B        | 7.9GB   | `ollama run phi3:medium`           |
| **Gemma 2 (27B)**        | 27B        | 16GB    | `ollama run gemma2:27b`            |
| **Llama 3.1 (70B)**      | 70B        | 40GB    | `ollama run llama3.1:70b`          |
| **Llama 3.2 Vision**     | 90B        | 55GB    | `ollama run llama3.2-vision:90b`   |
| **Llama 3.1 (405B)**     | 405B       | 231GB   | `ollama run llama3.1:405b`         |

> **⚠️ Note:** Larger models require more RAM. Approximate hardware requirements:
>
> - **1B - 3B parameters**: at least **4 GB RAM**
> - **7B parameters**: at least **8 GB RAM**
> - **14B parameters**: at least **16 GB RAM**
> - **27B parameters**: at least **32 GB RAM**
> - **70B parameters**: at least **64 GB RAM**
> - **90B parameters**: at least **128 GB RAM**
> - **405B parameters**: at least **256 GB RAM**

## 📚 Learn More

- **[LangChain Documentation](https://langchain.com/docs/)** - Learn more about LangChain’s capabilities for language model applications.
- **[Ollama Documentation](https://ollama.ai/docs/)** - Explore how Ollama simplifies running LLMs locally.
- **[Mistral Model](https://ollama.ai/library/mistral)** - Discover more about the Mistral model used in this project.
- **[Docker Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/)** - Dive into Docker’s powerful containerization.
- **[Ollama GitHub Repository](https://github.com/ollama/ollama)** - Check out Ollama on GitHub.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request. Please follow the [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/lafllamme/Plant.me/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) when contributing.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

---

<p align="center">Made with ❤️ by <a href="https://github.com/lafllamme">lafllamme</a></p>

---
